
### Why ReactJS? What are the Benefits and Reasons to choose it?
 - So, what are the top benefits ReactJs development company can get from using React in their projects and top reasons to choose?
 
* Component Style Architecture 
  - ReactJS is Component Style Architecture, and that is where the future of the web is.
    This Architecture has also helped the Java developer community to migrate to ReactJS with less friction.
* Less development time and higher quality 
  - React allows you to write clean and modular code, breaking the project into separate components.
    So we can reuse code, and which will increase the productivity of developers and ReactJS development company.
* High performance of your app 
  -  ReactJS main feature i.e Virtual DOM (in which representation of UI components is kept in memory and then synced with real DOM by library such as ReactDOM)
  that results in high performance of the app and gives better user experience
* Strong community 
  -  Being created by Facebook, the library is still maintained by the company as well as by independent contributors worldwide.
  Thanks to the community and solid corporate support, React is a reliable and up-to-date technology. Since the community is growing rapidly, it will be easier to hire reactjs developers.
* Flexible and easy to maintain
  - React code is easy to update and maintain due to its modular structure.
  React projects are incredibly flexible and can be scaled easily. It can help you to save time and money in the long run significantly.
* Many third-party components
  - Since React has a strong developer community, there are many third-party open source components available which we can use in our project.
* Easy transition to React Native
  - React Native is a mobile application development framework, based on React.
    Thus, it is effortless for ReactJS developers to switch to React Native and create mobile applications with a native look and feel.
    We can reuse some components developed in React web application in a React Native mobile app (mostly business logic), which improves the development speed.
* It’s easy to learn
  - React is much easier to learn than to other popular frontend frameworks like Angular & Vue.
    It's one of the main reasons why React gained so much popularity in little time. It helps businesses quickly build their projects.
* Create-react-app
  - React provides create-react-app, which do all initial heavy lifting of setting up configuration and helps us to focus on code and not toolchain.
  This command in React installs the dependencies needed to build your project and also generated an initial project structure.
  By running this command, we can quickly start with new projects.
* It helps to build rich user interfaces
  -  Today, the quality of the user interface in an application plays an important role.
  Poorly designed user interfaces lower the chances of an application to succeed. But, if an application has high-quality UI, then there are better chances for users to love to use the app. React permits building such high-quality, rich user interfaces through its components
* It allows writing custom components
  -   React comes with JSX, a syntax extension, which makes it possible to write your components.
  These components accept HTML quoting and also makes all subcomponent rendering a delightful experience for developers.
  
  
### When not to use ReactJS
Though with ReactJS, you can develop everything web, it is not a good idea to use ReactJS for a simple website that doesn't have a lot of dynamic form and content into it. It can be develop using ReactJS, but it will be over-engineering in that case. The following are some of the use cases when it is not a good idea to use React.

* Static Website with less Dynamic content
  - When you are developing a static website that has relatively static content with very less dynamic content, then using  react will be over-kill.
* SEO Optimized Website
  - Though there are some tweaks to develop SEO optimized React website, still many developers complain about the crawl ability of React websites. Also, it will be a significant risk to put SEO efforts on the React website.

[reference](https://codetoart.com/blog/why-reactjs-reason-to-choose-for-your-next-project)


## What Is JSX?
* JSX is an XML/HTML-like syntax used by React that extends ECMAScript so that XML/HTML-like text can co-exist with JavaScript/React code. 
* Basically, by using JSX you can write concise HTML/XML-like structures (e.g., DOM like tree structures) in the same file as you write JavaScript code, then Babel will transform these expressions into actual JavaScript code. Unlike the past, instead of putting JavaScript into HTML, JSX allows us to put HTML into JavaScript.


## Virtual dom
* React creates a tree of custom objects representing a part of the DOM
* You can think of the virtual DOM like a blueprint. It contains all the details needed to construct the DOM, but because it doesn't require all the heavyweight parts that go into a real DOM, it can be created and changed much more easily.
* Then, when it renders a component, it uses this virtual DOM to figure out what it needs to do with the real DOM to get the two trees to match.
